README.md, before:

# [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aces/Loris.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/aces/Loris) LORIS setup for the Medical Informatics Platform of the Human Brain Project

This is a setup of LORIS' v21.0.1 tailored for the hospitals that have joined the Human Brain Project and use the [Medical Informatics Platform](https://github.com/HBPMedical).

<br>

## Installation

### Dockerization

* Clone this repo
* run docker-compose up --build
* docker exec -it loris_apache bash
curl_query.sh creates the db schema, mysqluser and frontend user of loris
    * Mysql root access -> 172.28.1.2, root, neopass
    * for Mysql loris user -> lorisuser, neopass
    * loris frontpage user -> lorisuser, 1234
* bash /data/loris/aueb/curl_query.sh
If you attempt to login now the design will not load display correctly, to fix that you need to execute the update_interface.sql to the mysql-container.

At the mysql-container execute
```shell
UPDATE `LORIS`.`psc` SET `MRI_alias`='DCC' WHERE `CenterID`='1';
INSERT INTO Visit_Windows (Visit_label,  WindowMinDays, WindowMaxDays, OptimumMinDays, OptimumMaxDays, WindowMidpointDays) VALUES ('V1', '0', '2147483647', '40', '60', '50');
```

(Note that when you execute imaging_install_aueb.sh, your working directory must be /data/loris/bin/mri, also you must source beforehand minc-toolkit-config.sh )
* source /opt/minc/1.9.17/minc-toolkit-config.sh
* cd /data/loris/bin/mri
* execute imaging_install_aueb.sh in /data/loris/bin/mri
* bash imaging_install_aueb.sh

Exit the container and relogin.

Now when you login into loris_apache container you must see that your environment has been update to (loris-mri-python).

For the execution of the python scripts located in /data/loris/bin/mri/python


Change whatever is 'LORIS' to 'loris' as marked in the red lines.
![](docs/pics/fix_paths_configuration_admin_panel_red_line.png)

To finish the docker setup check Quality Control section.


6. Quality control

In order to mark all newly inserted mincs as "Pass"

Images in our case are ought to be initialized with a 'PASS' label upon being imported to LORIS. This is done by triger "files_AFTER_INSERT"

```shell
DELIMITER $$
CREATE DEFINER = CURRENT_USER TRIGGER `LORIS`.`files_AFTER_INSERT` AFTER INSERT ON `files` FOR EACH ROW
BEGIN
	INSERT INTO files_qcstatus
	SET	FileID = NEW.FileID,
     SeriesUID = NEW.SeriesUID,
     EchoTime = NEW.EchoTime,
     QCStatus = "Pass",
     QCFirstChangeTime = unix_timestamp( NOW() ),
     QCLastChangeTime = unix_timestamp( NOW() );
END $$ql
```

Loris does not store the StudyID of the mincs files into the database. One workaround is to modify the "files" table

```shell
ALTER TABLE files ADD FileStudyID TEXT DEFAULT NULL;
```

and execute fill_studyid.py which read the mnic header of each file to fill the missing studyid information.

```shell
sudo apt-get install minc-tools
python fill_studyid.py
```

In order to discriminize which files with "PASS" have been examined for the next stage we add one column

```shell
ALTER TABLE files ADD FileStudyComplete INT DEFAULT 0;
```

7. Insert Data

Make sure that pre and post folders exists, otherwise create them.

```shell
cd ~
mkdir pre post
```

Place your dicoms files to /home/loris/pre

It is recommended to make use of https://github.com/aueb-wim/DataQualityControlTool/ to find invalid .dcm files that you should not include while uploading a dicom, otherwise the upload will fail.

Example:
Upload a dicom folder to loris_apache container from host to /home/lorisadmin/pre
```shell
docker cp folder_path_from_host loris_apache:/home/lorisadmin/pre
```


Execute

```shell
python dicom_uploader.py
```

dicom_uploader.py will process each dicom-folder within the folder <b>pre</b> and afterwards moves that dicom-folder to the <b>post</b> folder.

Commit message:

readme update -- python as volume

README.md, after:

# [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aces/Loris.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/aces/Loris) LORIS setup for the Medical Informatics Platform of the Human Brain Project

This is a setup of LORIS' v21.0.1 tailored for the hospitals that have joined the Human Brain Project and use the [Medical Informatics Platform](https://github.com/HBPMedical).

<br>

## Installation

### Dockerization

* Clone this repo
* run docker-compose up --build
* docker exec -it loris_apache bash
curl_query.sh creates the db schema, mysqluser and frontend user of loris
    * Mysql root access -> 172.28.1.2, root, neopass
    * for Mysql loris user -> lorisuser, neopass
    * loris frontpage user -> lorisuser, 1234
* bash /data/loris/aueb/curl_query.sh
If you attempt to login now the design will not load display correctly, to fix that you need to execute the update_interface.sql to the mysql-container.

At the mysql-container execute
```shell
UPDATE `LORIS`.`psc` SET `MRI_alias`='DCC' WHERE `CenterID`='1';
INSERT INTO Visit_Windows (Visit_label,  WindowMinDays, WindowMaxDays, OptimumMinDays, OptimumMaxDays, WindowMidpointDays) VALUES ('V1', '0', '2147483647', '40', '60', '50');
```

(Note that when you execute imaging_install_aueb.sh, your working directory must be /data/loris/bin/mri, also you must source beforehand minc-toolkit-config.sh )
* source /opt/minc/1.9.17/minc-toolkit-config.sh
* cd /data/loris/bin/mri
and execute imaging_install_aueb.sh in /data/loris/bin/mri
* bash imaging_install_aueb.sh

And now the setup has been completed and you are ready to make use of the containers.

Note that when you login into loris_apache container you must see that your environment is displayed as (loris-mri-python).

For the execution of the python scripts proceed to /data/loris/python

6. Quality control

In order to mark all newly inserted mincs as "Pass"

Images in our case are ought to be initialized with a 'PASS' label upon being imported to LORIS. This is done by triger "files_AFTER_INSERT"

```shell
DELIMITER $$
CREATE DEFINER = CURRENT_USER TRIGGER `LORIS`.`files_AFTER_INSERT` AFTER INSERT ON `files` FOR EACH ROW
BEGIN
	INSERT INTO files_qcstatus
	SET	FileID = NEW.FileID,
     SeriesUID = NEW.SeriesUID,
     EchoTime = NEW.EchoTime,
     QCStatus = "Pass",
     QCFirstChangeTime = unix_timestamp( NOW() ),
     QCLastChangeTime = unix_timestamp( NOW() );
END $$ql
```

Loris does not store the StudyID of the mincs files into the database. One workaround is to modify the "files" table

```shell
ALTER TABLE files ADD FileStudyID TEXT DEFAULT NULL;
```

and execute fill_studyid.py which read the mnic header of each file to fill the missing studyid information.

```shell
sudo apt-get install minc-tools
python fill_studyid.py
```

In order to discriminize which files with "PASS" have been examined for the next stage we add one column

```shell
ALTER TABLE files ADD FileStudyComplete INT DEFAULT 0;
```

7. Insert Data

Make sure that pre and post folders exists, otherwise create them.

```shell
cd ~
mkdir pre post
```

Place your dicoms files to /home/loris/pre

It is recommended to make use of https://github.com/aueb-wim/DataQualityControlTool/ to find invalid .dcm files that you should not include while uploading a dicom, otherwise the upload will fail.

Example:
Upload a dicom folder to loris_apache container from host to /home/lorisadmin/pre
```shell
docker cp folder_path_from_host loris_apache:/home/lorisadmin/pre
```


Execute

```shell
python dicom_uploader.py
```

dicom_uploader.py will process each dicom-folder within the folder <b>pre</b> and afterwards moves that dicom-folder to the <b>post</b> folder.
